DOCS-2832: Move conditional data trigger sync into how-to (#3318)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/how-tos/trigger-sync.md

{{% /alert %}}

## Example: `sync-at-time`

In this example, you will configure sync to only trigger during a specific time frame of the day using an existing module [`sync-at-time:timesyncsensor`](https://app.viam.com/module/naomi/sync-at-time).
If you need to trigger sync based on a different condition, you need to create your own module and adjust the module logic accordingly.
Additional examples are available in this [GitHub repo](https://github.com/viam-labs/trigger-sync-examples-v2).

### Prerequisites

{{% expand "A running machine connected to the Viam app. Click to see instructions." %}}

{{% snippet "setup-both.md" %}}

{{% /expand%}}

{{< expand "Enable data capture and sync on your machine." >}}

Add the [data management](/services/data/) service:

On your machine's **CONFIGURE** tab, click the **+** icon next to your machine part in the left-hand menu and select **Service**.

Select the `data management / RDK` service and click **Create**.
You can leave the default data sync interval of `0.1` minutes to sync every 6 seconds.
Also leave both **Capturing** and **Syncing** toggles in the "on" position.

{{< /expand >}}

> ### Add sensor to determine when to sync

Author: ```suggestion
## Add sensor to determine when to sync
```

---
title: "How to trigger cloud sync conditionally"
linkTitle: "Trigger data sync conditionally"
description: "Trigger cloud sync to sync captured data when custom conditions are met."
weight: 44
type: "docs"
tags: ["data management", "cloud", "sync"]
images: ["/services/icons/data-cloud-sync.svg"]
aliases:
  - /data/trigger-sync/
  - /services/data/trigger-sync/
no_service: true
---

You may want to sync data only when a certain logic condition is met, instead of at a regular time interval.
For example, if you rely on mobile data but have intermittent WiFi connection in certain locations or at certain times of the day, you may want to trigger sync to only occur when these conditions are met.
Or, you may want to trigger sync only when your machine detects an object of a certain color.
The code for both of these examples is provided by the [trigger-sync-examples module](https://github.com/viam-labs/trigger-sync-examples-v2), and you can [create your own module](/how-tos/create-module/) if you want to use different logic.

To set up conditional syncing you need to:

> 1. Create or use an existing module that implements a `sensor` component that uses your custom logic to determine when to enable and disable sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create or use an existing module that implements a `sensor` component that uses custom logic to determine when to enable and disable sync.
```

>    While this sensor is not sensing the time it _senses_ whether the data manager should sync or not.

Reviewer: I don't understand this? why should it be sensing time?
```suggestion
   This sensor _senses_ whether the data manager should sync or not.
```

Author: This is the unchanged text of the original doc. I think this helps clarify because it's a pretty abstract sensor. When a reader reads "time sync sensor" they'd not know what it senses and it could just as easily "sense" time as "sense" what it actually "senses"

Author: Would this make more sense?
```suggestion
   This sensor does not sense time.
   It _senses_ whether the data manager should sync or not.
```

2. Change the configuration of the data manager to enable selective sync.

{{% alert title="Note: How sync is triggered" color="note" %}}

Regardless of the specifics of your trigger sync logic, to trigger sync you need to pass `true` to the [CreateShouldSyncReading function](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/datamanager#CreateShouldSyncReading) within the definition of your modular sensor's `Readings` function.
See examples in the `Readings` function of the [time-interval-trigger code](https://github.com/viam-labs/trigger-sync-examples-v2/blob/main/time-interval-trigger/selective_sync/selective_sync.go) and the [color-trigger code](https://github.com/viam-labs/trigger-sync-examples-v2/blob/main/color-trigger/selective_sync/selective_sync.go).

{{% /alert %}}

This page covers how to use the `sync-at-time` module.
You can use this as an example if you use or create a similar module.

{{% alert title="In this page" color="tip" %}}

> 1. [Add the `sync-at-time` "sensor"](#add-sensor-to-determine-when-to-sync)

Author: Yeah---I just did that because it's a pretty abstract form of "sensor" but they won't know why so I'll remove!

2. [Configure the data manager to sync based on the sensor](#configure-the-data-manager-to-sync-based-on-sensor)
3. [Test your sync configuration](#test-your-sync-configuration)

{{% /alert %}}

> ## Example: `sync-at-time`

Reviewer: I'd really like to keep the basic structure of all the how tos the same. So Prerequisites etc should be H2s. Why don't  we just remove this heading.

```suggestion
```

Author: The reason I did this is to make this how-to just a bit more generalizable, and make it clear that this is one module but you could do the same thing with your own. I think this heading helps that in case people are skimming and don’t read that part of the text

Reviewer: Ok keep it. The others need to become h2s though. There is no reason why they need to be h3s

Author: Ah okay. I was thinking of them as being part of the example but ok

> In this example, you will configure sync to only trigger during a specific time frame of the day using an existing module [`sync-at-time:timesyncsensor`](https://app.viam.com/module/naomi/sync-at-time).

Reviewer: If you want to move this, this could work well right under the "Add sensor to determine when to sync" heading, before the table

If you need to trigger sync based on a different condition, you need to create your own module and adjust the module logic accordingly.
Additional examples are available in this [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/viam-labs/trigger-sync-examples-v2).

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

On your machine's **CONFIGURE** tab, click the **+** icon next to your machine part in the left-hand menu and select **Service**.

Select the `data management / RDK` service and click **Create**.
You can leave the default data sync interval of `0.1` minutes to sync every 6 seconds.
Also leave both **Capturing** and **Syncing** toggles in the "on" position.

{{< /expand >}}

### Add sensor to determine when to sync

To use [`sync-at-time:timesyncsensor`](https://app.viam.com/module/naomi/sync-at-time):

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**1. Add the sensor to your machine**

On your machine's **CONFIGURE** page, click the **+** button next to your machine part in the left menu.
Select **Component**, then search for and select the `sync-at-time:timesyncsensor` model provided by the [`sync-at-time` module](https://app.viam.com/module/naomi/sync-at-time).

Click **Add module**, then enter a name or use the suggested name for your sensor and click **Create**.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
**2. Configure your time frame**

Go to the new component panel and copy and paste the following attribute template into your sensor’s attributes field:

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab name="Config builder" %}}

Reviewer: I think we can actually just remove json template and json example and just have the code box from config builder. That simplifies it

Author: I'm making it be just the attributes box from config builder, but with a template tab and an example tab

The following attributes are available for the `naomi:sync-at-time:timesyncsensor` sensor:

<div class="td-content">

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name    | Type   | Required? | Description |
| ------- | ------ | --------- | ----------- |
| `start` | string | **Required** | The start time for the time frame during which you want to sync. Example: `"14:10:00"`.  |
| `end`   | string | **Required** | The end of the sync time frame, for example: `"15:35:00"`. |
| `zone`  | string | **Required** | The time zone for the `start` and `end` time, for example: `"CET"`. |

{{< /tablestep >}}
{{< /table >}}

<div>
<br>

In the next step you will configure the data manager to take the sensor into account when syncing.

> ### Configure the data manager to sync based on sensor

Author: ```suggestion
## Configure the data manager to sync based on sensor
```

> The following attributes are available for the `naomi:sync-at-time:timesyncsensor` sensor:
> 
> <div class="td-content">
> 
> <!-- prettier-ignore -->
> | Name    | Type   | Required? | Description |
> | ------- | ------ | --------- | ----------- |
> | `start` | string | **Required** | The start time for the time frame during which you want to sync. Example: `"14:10:00"`.  |
> | `end`   | string | **Required** | The end of the sync time frame, for example: `"15:35:00"`. |
> | `zone`  | string | **Required** | The time zone for the `start` and `end` time, for example: `"CET"`. |
> 
> {{< /tablestep >}}
> {{< /table >}}
> 
> <div>
> <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the attributes, see [`naomi:sync-at-time:timesyncsensor`](https://github.com/viam-labs/sync-at-time).
```
